Qs:What is the difference between Static and Dynamic web content? Explain how using a scripting language can create
dynamic content on your web page. If possible, provide an example to support your findings.


Static web content is known as static because its content can not be changed dynamically. While Dynamic web content can
be changed on the fly. Static web content is published in the regular files on your server and has to be republished when
it changes and we use only HTML and CSS for coding of static pages. On the other hand Dynamic web content is republished
automatically and along with a predefined HTML and CSS. Sometimes client side scripting language such as javascript is
is used in order to handle the run-time behaviour. Unlike Static web content in most of the cases Dynamic web page would
need to access database and hence processes slowly as compared to static web content.
Its well know that websites with static web content are quick and cheap to develop as contrast to websites with dynamic
web content.
Following Problem Statements with definite requirements elaborate the difference of functionality between static web
content and dynamic web content:

Problem Statements:
1. I want to advertise about my company and my company products on internet. I am not going to do frequent changes in my
content. I don’t want to sell my products online but I would like to have an email feature on my website so that my
customer can contact me view email.

2. I want to advertise about my company and its products. My company has a long list of products and it varies from time
to time. Content that is displayed on the page changes when user searches or changes the search term. I would also want
the images and graphics of web pages to change frequently so that they can match with new products.
    Adding a digital clock to my web page.
    Proving chat service to the visitor of web site


Best solution to the first problem statement would be to use static web content as the length and amount of content is
fixed so the whole requirement would be full filled by creating static web content pages and an email link can be posted
on static page clicking on that would launch build in email client on user's computer.

On the other hand best solution for the second problem statement would be to create the dynamic web content pages. As
with dynamic content, once pattern of the web page is finalized for certain states,  its easy and hassel free to change
the content frequently. The feature of running clock can be efficiently added by Javascript.
Chat service is also a good example of dynamic web page as it requires client side scripting language Javascript or
Jquery library, as well as server side scripting support like PHP or C#.

Scripting language such as javascript plays a vital role in maintaining the dynamic nature of the web site. Static web
content is used for the websites where change required for web content is infrequent. Writing such solution requires
some web designers and HTML experts.

In contrast dynamic web content is used for the websites where change required for web content is frequent. Modern web services
like Gmail and  facebook make very heavy use of Advanced java script e.g. AJAX to dynamically update the contents. This
provides the amazing user experience. Ajax is used to make server request and in response only a limited portion of web page
can be updated rather than reloading the entire web page in response like in case of static web content. This can save a
lot of user network bandwidth. However writing such a solution is not an easy task as it not only requires good web designers
but also good programmers.













